Okay, so now let's talk about the defensive
system, the defensive options of the Drive System.
So, I guess let's talk about Drive Reversal first because it's the most straightforward.
So, Drive Reversal is similar, if you played Street Fighter V or the Alpha series, it's
most similar to the reversal or Alpha counter.
So it's done by tapping forward and Drive Impact, Heavy Punch and Heavy Kick when you're
in blockstun.
So this, so the move ends.
cancels the blockstun and then you do like a horizontal like lunging attack and
if the opponent gets hit then they're knocked they get pushed back pretty far
they're knocked down and they incur a Grey Life damage. So Grey Life damage is
recovers slowly after a few seconds. But if you get hit,
while you're...
if you get hit again, or if you get hit before the Grey Life recovers,
that damage becomes permanent.
Uh...
I have to check and see if you can
throw them out of it.
If you can throw them out of the driver versa on reaction, or the driver versa on reaction,
but I don't think you can because that was one of the major problems with the
reversal in Street Fighter V is that if you bated it out, you could just throw them.
So there's that.
The other thing is that if it's, you can, it also, oh, oh, the cost is two of your drive
gauge stocks.
So you can't, you know, like, you can't use it like all the time.
And it can be, yeah, like each character's Drive Reversal is different, is a little different
in terms of how much range it has. So you have to be conscious of that because like if
you throw it out when they're too far away then you whiff and I'm pretty sure if they
hit you it counts as a punish counter.
And if they block the driver reversal, it's the, I think you're only like minus 2 or minus
3. So you're safe if they block it, but it's
Not your turn anymore, but you don't get your turn back.
The other thing about
about a Drive Reversal is if it's parried, yeah, if the Drive Reversal is parried, the
Defender has enough time to punish, you know, you can go into a full combo if you parry
a Drive Reversal successfully. But I have to look at how many startup frames, but I want
to say it's pretty similar to Drive Impact. So it's theoretically something that you can
react to with a parry but you can't bait it out and throw them.
You might be, I'm pretty sure if you're close to them and you do it and you bait it out,
I'm pretty sure you could also hold up and that would work too.
So that's driver or sole two bars of Drive Gauge stock.
So now, let's talk about the Drive Parry.
So if you played third strike or street fighter five, you're probably familiar with the parry.
It's done by pressing Medium Punch and Medium Kick together.
So the same input as V-Skill in Street Fighter V.
So if you played Ryu in Street Fighter V, then it basically works the same way as it
did in that game, which is much different than the way that it worked in Third Strike, which
is you would have to tap forward. So it costs half a bar to
attempt the parry. But if the parry is successful, then you get the half bar back.
So, the way it works is you want to do the parry right as the move, as the attacker's
move is making contact.
And so yeah, if it connects, like if the parry is successful, then you don't take any damage
from the attack like it absorbs the hit
and
depending on the move
you
may
be able
to
um... to counter attack
and
uh...
i believe
you get a
i believe it'll count as uh...
a punish counter
i'm not totally sure
like what the window is i have to check
uh... the uh... okay so the other thing about
the parry
makes it
much different
from previous iterations is that you can just hold the buttons down to parry multiple hits
as opposed to needing to tap it with each hit that you're trying to parry.
So this makes parrying moves that hit multiple times super easy.
The other thing is that even though it, I feel like the window is six frames.
I think the window is six frames.
just say the Windows 6 frames. So within that 6 frame window where you where the
attack will be parried if you if it connects in the first like it if you
parry in that six-frame window if the move makes contact in the first two frames of the
parry then you get a Perfect Parry and you'll know that you got the Perfect Parry because the
game slows down and there's this big animation effect
kind of like the animation from hitting a Drive Impact successfully.
And
The Perfect Parry allows for a huge window of time to counter-attack.
It's probably as much time as you get from hitting a Drive Impact.
Whereas with a regular parry, for most moves,
you don't get enough frame advantage
from landing a successful parry in order to--
like you don't get enough frame advantage to counter attack.
So,
you know,
that kind of,
And to me that makes it like regular parry kind of weak.
Because in Third Strike, you know, you could...
Like, in third strike usually, um, in third strike if you got a parry, if you parried
like a medium or heavy attack, that was usually, um, that would usually give you enough time
to counterattack with like, you know, whatever your characters main, you know, combo starter was.
And, you know, that basically, oh, and even on a light attack, if you parried a light up close,
you still had enough time to be able to throw the attacker.
So, you know, what that resulted in was the parry being like a very high reward mechanic in Third Strike.
It's Street Fighter V. You know, regular parry isn't, you know, isn't high reward, but
definitely the Perfect Parry is high reward.
But it's also high risk because just like in Street Fighter V, the parry has both startup
frames and recovery frames.
Whereas in Third Strike, there basically were no startup frames.
So you could do a parry on wake up.
And because you're just tapping forward,
if the opponent wasn't attacking,
then there was no recovery animation,
because you just tapped forward and nothing happened.
But starting in Street Fighter V
and now coming into Street Fighter VI,
there are startup frames and recovery frames
on the parry, which means if the attacker
If an attacker is doing, if an attacker has, if an attacker is timing, if the opponent
is timing the attack, is timing a meaty attack to hit you right as you're getting up. The
meaty attack wins because the parry has a two frame startup. So that means that you can't
You can do the parry on wake up, but if the meaty attack connects on the first two frames
of the parry, the parry loses. So like, you know, like, that may not sound like, like,
I would say it's too early to tell whether or not Wake Up Parry is going to be something
that is a reliable option on Wake Up.
But I don't think it will be because it's basically designed not to be an omniscient
or a um it's not supposed to be a strong wake-up option because in third strike it was arguably
too strong of a wake-up option and in that game you always had to worry about wake-up parry because
Because let's say if you were fighting a character like Juri with like
unblockables or like super high damage output, you know,
the, you know, the defender can have, you know,
you could be losing the entire round and then get one lucky wake-up parry
and then totally, um, you know, switch totally switch the momentum up and
you know, do a, you know, do like game changing damage, do like, yeah, do game changing damage
off of parrying one low light attack.
You know, so I think they've basically toned down how good it is on wake up to prevent
those situations.
The other thing about Perfect Parry is that you can't...
If you get a Perfect Parry, the damage scaling starts at 50%.
So I don't know if that's like the entire combo is just 50% damage scaling or it starts
at 50% and goes lower with every hit that I don't know.
I have to check, but it's significant that the damage is reduced.
and also like even as a dirt strike player with years of parrying experience, I find
whoa I find perfect parries to be really is really difficult. It's also worth mentioning.
I haven't tested this myself.
Well, okay.
It's worth noting that it appears like the Perfect Parry can't be done.
Like, you have to...
The move has to make contact in those first...
Not only does the move have to make contact...
Or...
In those first two frames...
But like...
It appears like it doesn't benefit from the...
It doesn't benefit from the input buffering system like other inputs do.
For example, in Street Fighter V,
Street Fighter V introduced either, I think it was a three-frame buffer, where you could,
you could do a move like up to three or five frames early, and the game would just
register it as coming out on the earliest possible frame, which made Link combos much,
much easier to the point, to the level of...
It basically makes it so that one frame links
aren't actually one frame because you had,
because you could input the next hit of the console,
the next hit of the combo up to three frames earlier or five frames and it would still
and the game would count it as having, you know, come out on the first possible frame.
Whereas in Street Fighter IV, one-frame links really were one-frame links.
though the planking technique was discovered which allowed which basically lets you generate
extra inputs to make those one-frame links easier to do.
So what does it mean that the parry doesn't benefit from the...
What does it mean that you can't input buffer the Perfect Parry?
Well that means that it actually has to hit on, it actually has to hit in that two frame
window.
Otherwise, you get a regular parry and most likely you won't be able to punish the move.
So I'm pretty sure that means that because the parry has a two frame startup, you only
have, you can only get the Perfect Parry on frames three and four.
And there's no input buffering, so you literally had a window of...
You have a one-thirtieth of a second window to hit the Perfect Parry.
And so if you hit it too...
Yeah, like the the attackers move has to collide
with the parry on frames three or four in order to get the Perfect Parry. If it's
the four frame three the parry loses because it's
still in the startup frames and
if it's
And if it's after and if it's the fourth
If it's the fourth
Sorry if it's the
Fifth
Okay, yeah, if it hits on...
Okay, let's start over.
If it hits, if the attack makes contact on frames one or two, the parry loses.
On frames 3 and 4 you get a Perfect Parry and then on frames 5 through 8 you get a regular
parry and likely won't be able to counter attack with anything.
But after frame 8, you're in recovery frames, which means that if the opponent hits you,
score a... they'll get the punish counter frame and damage bonus.
So, um...
Yeah, I mean...
I don't know. Me personally, I guess I haven't trained parries enough to feel like I'm a threat with them.
Because it just seems so daunting to...
It's like the risk reward is not...
Like the risk is really high and the reward is pretty low.
low even if you get the Perfect Parry there's still the 50% damage scaling.
But one way that it is that it does seem to be one situation that it does seem to be
like pretty effective in is in a cross-up situation on wake-up. So if the opponent is trying to
if you're knocked down and the opponent goes for the cross-up,
going for the parry is probably a pretty good option because
Like, it doesn't...
Like, the parry will...
The parry will auto-correct.
So you don't need to...
You don't need to worry about blocking the opposite way.
And if you get the Perfect Parry...
Then...
Yeah, you have enough time to counter attack.
The other thing to note is that you cannot parry when you're in burnout mode because
you have no bar.
Yeah, can't parry when you're in burnout.
Oh, and I guess it's also worth mentioning that you don't...
If you parry a special move, you don't take any chip damage.
parry a normal it doesn't decrease your Drive Gauge so that's parries
